
If you want to use the regression from a research study as a basis for calculating predictive estimates as part of a decision making process, the most robust approach is to use a linear model that assigns unit weights to standardized predictor variables (Wainer 1976; Cohen 1990).  Starting from the back of that sentence and working forward: The ‘predictor variables’ are the independent variables in a regression analysis; they are the things which your model will assume predicts the value of the outcome.  ‘Standardized’ predictor variables have been converted to unitless values, such as Cohen's d, or z-scores (more on that in the following paragraph). In general, ‘weights’ are the coefficients by which predictor variables are multiplied; in a regression model they are the correlation coefficients. ‘Unit’ weights, however, all have the same magnitude: 1.  The sign of any given unit weight will match the sign of its respective correlation coefficient, but the magnitude won't&mdash;any positive coefficient will have a unit weight of ‘+1’, and any negative coefficient will have a unit weight of ‘-1’.

The only difficulty is in standardizing the predictors.  You can, however, estimate the standardized value of a measured value, if you have the descriptive statistics for the data that was used in the research study on which you are basing your calculations.

Specifically, you would need the mean value (along with the unit of measure) and the standard deviation for all of the variables.  Then, for each predictor variable, subtract the research sample's mean from your measured value, and divide the result by the research sample's standard deviation.

To convert the resulting outcome prediction back into a measured value, multiply it by the standard deviation of the research data's outcome variable, and add the mean value of the research data's outcome variable.
